Now using a matrix to control
which versions of a job are executed
and to easily use multiple configurations
in one and the same job, can also be a very useful feature.
To conclude this core section,
we'll dive into a never very useful feature
and that would be a reusable workflows.
The idea here is that you could have a workflow
with a job and some steps,
or also with multiple jobs of course,
that you might wanna reuse in other workflows.
For example, one workflow could be uploading
the website code to a hosting server.
And that such a common task that you want to use
that same workflow in other workflows that might in addition
also do some testing or building or whatever.
So you have one workflow that just uploads the code
and then other workflows that also do additional work.
But you now wanna use that one workflow
inside of a job of that other workflow.
And that is indeed something that's possible with help
of GitHub Actions because it supports reusable workflows.
Now to show you this reusable workflow feature,
I'll add a new workflow file, reusable.yml.
Which will be used to define the workflow
that should be reusable.
In here we'll give this a name,
reusable deploy for example,
and I'll add the trigger a little bit later.
For the moment I'll just add my jobs.
And here I'll keep this very simple.
I'll add a simple dummy deploy job
where I say runs on Ubuntu latest.
And where in my steps I add one step
where I say output information.
And then here I just say deploying
and uploading or anything like that.
So it's just a dummy workflow.
We'll add more to it later but for the moment that's all.
And I'll get back to this on trigger
in a couple of seconds as well.
But that's now the reusable workflow.
Now to make it reusable, it must be callable
by other workflows.
And that's where the on trigger
the on field becomes important.
Because here we don't wanna run this workflow
whenever we push or when a poll request is opened
or anything like this.
Instead, we wanna run this workflow
from inside other workflows.
That's the idea behind a reusable workflow.
And for that, GitHub Actions gives us a special event,
the workflow call event.
Not workflow dispatch that was used
for manually running a workflow,
but instead workflow call.
This allows this workflow to be called from other workflows.
And that's there for the other part now.
I'll copy the execution flow yml file
and name it use reuse yml using reusable workflow
could be the name we assign here
so that we can easily identify it once it's running.
And here we're still reacting to a push
to the main branch and we still might be linting
and we have all the conditional code in there.
We could also remove it, it does not matter.
But then here for the deployment step,
I want to change things in this use reuse yml file.
Instead of running my own steps here
or doing my own work here, I will remove them.
I will also remove runs on
and instead we can use the uses key here.
Now, we already know the uses key
from steps that use actions.
And actions also are kind of reusable scripts you could say.
Later in the course we will also learn
how we can write our own actions.
But actions are used in steps.
Now we want to use an entire workflow
which is a combination of steps
or even a combination of jobs if we want to.
And we wanna use that predefined workflow
which we defined here for this deploy job.
For that we can add the user's key right to the job.
And then here we don't reference an action
but instead an entire workflow.
We do that by providing a full path
to the workflow file seen relative
from the route project folder.
So we dive into the /.GitHub folder
into the workflows folder.
And then here it's the reusable.yml file
that defines the workflow which I wanna reuse.
This could also be a path to a workflow
defined in another repository.
But here it is a relative path to a workflow defined
in the same repository.
So now with that we're using this workflow
when this job runs.
So therefore, because we added workflow call
as an event here, this workflow will be kicked off
by GitHub Actions whenever this job starts.
Now, there's more we can do with reusable workflows
but let's first of all run this simple example
by creating a new commit
and pushing this.
So that's the first step.
And now under actions we see that we got this
using reusable workflow here,
we also got reusable deploy.
This is not started because that is the reusable workflow
which has not started itself when we push.
Instead using reusable workflow is started.
And that's the workflow that uses the reusable workflow.
And in here we see that in this deploy step here,
we'll use our reusable workflow.
Now I just realized that we won't get there
because my tests are still failing.
So let's quickly fix this by reading that A here
in that failing test in maincontent.test.jsx.
And let's add a new commit where we fix this,
fixed failing test.
And then push this so that we can actually see
the reusable workflow in action.
Because at the moment we are not even reaching it.
So now with this fixed,
here we triggered another workflow run
and now we will make it to this deploy step.
And there this reusable workflow will then be used.
So let's wait until we get there.
Here we go, it's starting to execute.
So this job that uses the reusable workflow
is starting to execute.
And what you see here is that the output information step
was executed and there we see deploying and uploading.
And that's exactly what our reusable workflow does.
Here, we're outputting, deploying and uploading
and that's the only part where we're outputting this.
So indeed, our reusable workflow was executed here
and that's how we generally can use reusable workflows.